chapter 8
A primary key is a value that is unique to that partiuclar table that is used for identification. the primary key is what seperates data entries. ie a table of orders, an order id is a primary key, while total items ordered would not.

A foreign key is value that corresponds to another table. ie a table with school clubs could have a meeting place that is a building id. that building id is the primary key for a table containing buildings. in the club table, the club id is the primary key, while the building id is the forign key.

A schema is just a way that data is orginized. It show all tables and all the data that would go into them, including primary keys and forign keys. The three schemas are one to one, one to many, and many to many. 

a one to one relation ship would be if you had a computer table and a owner table. The owner table could have a forign key of computers they own, or the computer table could have a forign key for the computers owner. a one to many relationship would be if a building table had a column for clubs that meet at that building. a many to many relation ship would be if maintiance workers had a set of buildings they work on. A single building may have many workers, and each worker may work on multiple buildings. 

If I had a dog park and kept track of the people that came and all dogs they owned, and I put the name of the person every single time they showed up and at some point in time they got another dog, I would have to change every single instance of that persons name, not just once. If i only changed the last entry, then the data in the table is questionable, and its integroty is invalid.

No it would be a bad idea to have a book1 and book2 column because they're a number of classes that use only one textbook. This would mean there would be a lot of null entries, wasting space and bring uncertainty into if the data is correct. This also wastes a lot of space.

chapter 9

1. The principle of least privilage is giving a user the fewest amount of privilages they need to complete what they set out to do. 

2. The grant command gives users privilages and revoke takes them away

3. select and insert would be some common privilages given to users

4. shutdown and super would be some common admin commands. They also get to create users and assign other privilages

5. the auto_increment feature will increment this index automatically if the data type is incrementable. You cannot increament a blob.

6. you would want to create an index for a column if you find that you are querring that column often and the column is not the primary key.

7. you would use a smallint

8. A varchar is different from a char because a varchar has a variable allocation length, while chars have to be defined. It is a speed vs. storage tradeoff. char are faster, but varchars take up less space.

9. blob is a binary large object. It is commonly used for large strings. 

chapter 10.

1. the purpose of a join is to connect two or more tables of data. for instance, if you had customers and orders, you would want to know how manyh items a customer had by name, you would want to use a join.

2. 

3. You need to use dot notation in a join when you have a column of the same name in two tables. It can also make things more readable. ie customers and orders have both a column called customerid, so if you want to say the customer table's customerid, you would use customer.customerid

4. In general it is true that you need one less join condition statment for the number of tables joining. ie if your joining 15 tables, you would most likely need 14 join conditions. 2 tables = 1 condition.

5. Left join will show all matches on the left table to the right table, but if a match on the left table has no match on the right, it will add a row of null's. This is useful for checking if an entry exists in one table but not in any others. ie you could see which books dont have reviews by selecting books.bookname and reviews.bookname and left joining books and reviews. If any books dont have an entry in reviews, a null row will be added.

6. You could join a table with itself if you want to compare a row of a table with another row from the same table. 


