1. The w3c recommendations are a set of guidelines that have gone over extensive review and testing and have become standards. They are not necessarly concrete rules, but in order for a site to be w3c compliant. HTML and XML are examples of w3c recommendations
2. the Web Accessibility initiative is just a movement to try and make the internet more accessable, particulary for people with disablities. Things like handling web content like pictures and text, whether they be server side or client, are addressed by the WAI.
3. All text and images on the internet produced in the US are copyrighted, however, there are many fair use clauses, and other licences that these can be provided under, allowing their use on the internet to be easier. 
4. Creative commons is a licence that aims to allow users to publish content to the public domain easily. It allows the work to be redistrubited freely for non commercial purposes. It can also extend to other things, like derivatives. 
5.a MIME type is a way for email clients to tell what type of data it is reciving. this way they can tell if the attachment is a picture or document.
6. A URL access a specfic file by first identifying the protocol ie http://, and then goes and then checks the resource name. This will change depending on the protoco, but http consits of a host name (www.webdevbasics.net), a file name consiting of the path and the file on the host (/chapter1/index.html). The resource name may also contain a port number and a reference, but these are genrally optional and not provided.
7. A protocol is just a way of formating data for transportation. HTTP is a type of protocol.
8. The Domain Name System provides a mapping of domain names(like google) to a numeric ip address. It is similar to looking up names in a phone book, or finding a finding a endagred species by looking up a map of a map of a vector of strings. 
9. A Document Type Definition is a way of telling a markup language like xml or html what type of document it is looking at, so may no precisly what elements may appear in the document. 
Chapter 2
1. Blockquote tags are a way of quoting another source. They are often indented by browsers. You should not use blockquotes to indent your own material, as there are other ways to indent content. 
2. <strong> is a way for a browser to know that this text is important, which is commonly achieved by making the text bold. text can be made bold by the <b> tag, but the main difference of <strong> and <b> is that <strong> will manipulate the text to whatever the browser defines as "strong". If a browser decides that all caps is "strong", <b> and <strong> will no longer be the same thing. similar to using sizeof() in c. 
3. similar to variables in programing languages, make link names unique, unrepetative, and understood out of context of the page. If you have a link that takes you to the about us page, name the link 'About us' or 'learn about us', not just 'about'. Also links with the same name should go to the same page.
